now a traditional Irish box
my grandmother's favorite treat food it
was like eating
she spoke to her cousin's house and
they'd spend the evening making box tea
and gossiping and stuff like that the
absolute die-hard traditional recipe is
just made with raw potato and I'm a
little bit of a diehard I do prefer my
box you just made with raw potato but
the fashion now is to use yesterday's
leftover leftover spots as well so I am
going to throw a few of them in because
it is a good way of using up leftovers
and we're all looking for that at the
moment so it's so easy and your fingers
that are you missing a mail and I looked
down and I closed it with supplemental
speed so that can happen too so that'll
do with a bit of potato now what you
want to do is you want to take all the
starchy as much of a starchy moisture
out of this as you can and then you can
replace that starchy moisture with a
little bit of milk or a little bit of
egg put a bit of bacon to find it as
well actually this what this isn't too
bad
this mixture you can put it into into a
clean tea cloth and really squeeze it
out but I find that usually you can just
do it with your hands if you have good
strong Irish hands as I do they're small
but they're strong so you've got your
dry potato man and to that I would just
add whatever you've got left over in the
saucepan problem yesterday you really
you don't want to have more than half
and half really famous so there's just a
bit of a and you just set up now am I
gonna add into this now I'm gonna put
the pan on actually because you do want
a really good hot pan but you don't want
any cut anything kind of namby-pamby
going on with that pop music a bit of
heat going so you just mix that up you
need to put in a good scalp of salt to
taste it's nothing worse in the blind
spot salt and then flour
the plain flour God have I run out here
it won't kill us as well and then you're
just gonna mix that up with a bit of
milk or you know what would have
leftover yogurt if you've got it as well
to do the trick
so you just want it and you want it good
and wet you want this basically these
are potato pancakes so you want it to be
the same consistency as a pancake and in
the spirit of pancakes I like to throw
in an egg and here's my reasons for this
as well it was an expression in my
grandmother's day to over egg the
pudding and what it basically meant was
to make a food too rich but it was also
kind of used an expression for showing
off the bit because eggs as a protein
worked they're certainly going to rare
commodity but you wouldn't you know you
wouldn't be throwing eggs into things
willy nearly either you know they were a
source of protein and they were a
serious food so you'd be careful about
how many eggs you put into a cake and
you put the majority of your eggs now
into a rich cake a Christmas cake and we
don't we don't have to think about those
things anymore you know we think you
know what we have a different kind of
poverty now but in those days you know
poverty was not having enough eggs so I
do like to put I do like to put a little
extra egg into things and think of my
grandmother
she liked to buy too much stick it up
the Reagan you know enjoy yourself you
like a little right that looks a little
bit be a little bit wet again you know
it's really just about look see you know
it's a pancake mix I just kind of look
see and you know what you put this in
the pan is that pan smoking yet you put
this in the pan and if it doesn't work
you make a small bit and then if it
doesn't work you just try again now
normally I don't do this I don't
normally five points in butter because
it doesn't usually work for me but we're
checking that that pan is smoking off
and it is I do like I have to say the
old traditional your traditional
cast-iron pan now that's smoking I hope
this isn't going to be too much of a
disaster be a bit embarrassing if it is
now there's your box t it's a nice
little hand okay cuz if I put another
one on as well
and apparently suddenly miraculously
statistic cooldown up at the bottom now
there you go you just leave that to fry
away a couple of minutes
you don't want them a perfect shake it's
nice and messy so we just met though
surprised for a minute and then we can
turn them okay we're gonna turn the
pancakes oh look at that I'll stop the
lights all that looks delicious
yes oh get behind me st. with a bit of
butter and jam on that where would you
be going now now you see how easy that
is
it's just like a little two-minute snack
food that's as quick as a pancake you
know absolutely fantastic so we'll just
let those up for another second
now when you use in the raw potato on
its own you really want to leave them
you know you really want to leave them
in the pan on a slightly lower setting
just to make sure that that wall spiders
cut through because even if it's you
know not as soft as it should be and it
can taste lovely you can get a little
bit of a little bit of indigestion
that's good to go I'm gonna have one of
these right now wait for the plate I'm
not even gonna wait for a plate look at
this straight off the pan yeah what you
do is you just get little bit of butter
stick that on there yeah I've got a bit
of homemade after jelly here this is
what I love the sweet and the savory and
saving this subtle jelly now for a big
box to blow out could that be any more
delicious
stop my face
room for the time that is fantastic